README.md, before:

`------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------`
`------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------`
# Gitspring

The gitspring extension keeps blocks in sync with git from the blockspring cli.

## Installing 

To install the gitspring extension, build and install the ruby gem.

```
$ gem build blockspring-cli.gemspec
$ gem install blockspring-cli-0.0.999.gem
```

##Usage:

Gitspring is used from within a repo, inside a block's top level directory. One or more blocks can reside inside a single git repo. 

An example repo directory looks like:
```
- blocks //git repo
    - block-1 
        - block.py
        - blockspring.json
        - git_config.json
    - block-2 
        - block.rb
        - blockspring.json
        - git_config.json
    - ...
```
Once a git repo has been initialized, the git_config.json file should be added to each block's directory to start using gitspring. 

A sample git_config.json file could look like: 

```
{
  "git_url": "git@github.com:GITHUB_ACCOUNT/REPO_NAME.git"
}

```

to keep track of the parent repo, but there are no requirements beyond the file existing.

#### Publishing changes to a block

Submitting changes to Blockspring is accomplished from within a block's directory:
```
# changes to block.py file in block-1 directory 
$ git add block.py
$ git commit -m "change to function" 
$ blockspring push 
```
the last command will:
- Check if the repo has changed since the last git commit:
    - If the repo has changed, the user is prompted to confirm desired action:
        - 1. Abort the push and stop executing prior to last 3 steps below
        - 2. Reset directory to the state of the last commit by discarding all changes in the repo and continue below
- Push code from the last git commit to Blockspring
- Add the latest timestamp from the blockspring.json file to a new git commit
- Push the latest commits to git

### Get the latest version of a block

Requesting the latest version of a block published to Blockspring: 
```
# from block-1 directory 
$ blockspring pull
```

- Stash any changes since the last commit
- Pull the latest block from Blockspring
- Un-stash changes

This should only be used to explicitly work off latest version in Blockspring because git commits may have happened since the last push to Blockspring, 

To get the latest version of the block from git, `git pull` should still be used and is likely better to work off of.  

## Implementation and discussion

The goal of the gitspring extension is to keep track of revisions to blocks.

The implementation checks to see if a git_config file has been created in a block's directory. If present, git will be used as the system of record for `blockspring push` calls.

Changes made through the Blockspring UI to function code or config can get out of state with the git repo. The implementation assumes changes not commited to git should be ignored. This could be approached more conservatively. 

There might be better ways of handling versioning, and rolling back to previous versions. Blockspring functions are not versioned. Changing function arguments/return values could break users' spreadsheets and should be done carefully!

Merging might also be unnecessarily complicated, where changes within one block inside the repo might prevent another block from pushing. Not sure if there is a way around this when multiple blocks are in one repo. 

`------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------`
`------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------` 

`Non-gitspring documentation begins here:`

# Blockspring CLI.

The Blockspring CLI is used to manage, run, and deploy cloud functions (we call them "blocks") from the command line.

Once deployed, you can use your blocks from just about anywhere. For more info, check out: https://www.blockspring.com.

## Getting Started

Let's deploy our first block in less than 60 seconds.

To get started, we'll need ruby. If you don't have ruby on your machine, first visit https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/installation/ to install it.

#### Step 1: Install the Blockspring-CLI tool

    $ gem install blockspring-cli

#### Step 2: Login to Blockspring   
We'll need to login with our Blockspring account. No Blockspring account yet? Sign up here first: https://api.blockspring.com/users/sign_up.

    $ blockspring login
    Enter your Blockspring credentials.
    Username or email: jason@example.com
    Password (typing will be hidden):
    You are logged in as jason.

#### Step 3: Create a new block
We can create blocks in ruby, python, javascript, php, or R (and more languages are coming soon). Let's create a ruby block since ruby is already installed on our machine.

    $ blockspring new rb "My new Ruby block"
    Creating directory my-new-ruby-block
    Creating script file my-new-ruby-block/block.rb
    Creating config file my-new-ruby-block/blockspring.json

#### Step 4: Deploy your block
Let's enter our new block's directory and deploy.

    $ cd my-new-ruby-block
    $ blockspring push
    Syncronizing script file ./block.rb
    Syncronizing config file ./blockspring.json

#### Step 5: Visit your block's homepage
Now that our block is now deployed we can visit its homepage to see it in action.

    $ blockspring open
    
That's it! We've deployed our first block. To learn more about the Blockspring-CLI, check out the [API in Detail](#api-in-detail) section below. Otherwise, let's pick out our favorite language and start writing our own blocks.

######Language-Specific Libraries
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>If you prefer this language...</th>
    <th>Use this library...</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Ruby</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.rb">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.rb</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Python</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.py">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.py</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Javascript</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.js">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.js</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>PHP</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.php">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.php</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.R">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.R</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<br/>
## API in Detail
Let's explore the Blockspring-CLI tool API in detail.

####Authentication
######LOGIN
You must be logged in to run Blockspring-CLI tool commands.

    $ blockspring login
    
######LOGOUT

    $ blockspring logout

####Block Management
######GET
We can ```GET``` a block down to our local machine. The block will be saved in a new directory and can be edited or even executed locally.

    $ blockspring get <block id>

Below is an example ```GET``` request for the following block: https://api.blockspring.com/pkpp1233/6dd22564137f10b8108ec6c8f354f031. The block id can be found directly in the URL.

    $ blockspring get pkpp1233/6dd22564137f10b8108ec6c8f354f031

######NEW
To create a ```NEW``` block:

    $ blockspring new <language> <block name>
    
Here are explicit commands to create a new block in each supported language:
    
    // Ruby: creates dir w/ block.rb & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new rb "fun ruby block"
    
    // Python: creates dir w/ block.py & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new py "fun python block"
    
    // Javascript: creates dir w/ block.js & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new js "fun javascript block"
    
    // PHP: creates dir w/ block.php & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new php "fun php block"
    
    // R: creates dir w/ block.R & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new R "fun R block"
    
The ```NEW``` command creates a working directory for your block and populates that directory with two files: a ```block.*``` (asterisk is for your language of choice - file holds your function) and a ```blockspring.json``` (this file holds the block's configs and additional data).

######PULL
We can ```PULL``` a block's recent changes down to our machine. ```PULL``` is used from our block's working directory.

    $ blockspring pull
    
Note: If the block isn't in a directory on our machine yet, we either need to use ```GET``` to retrieve it or ```NEW``` to create it.
    
######PUSH
We can ```PUSH``` a block's recent changes up to Blockspring. ```PUSH``` is used from our block's working directory.

    $ blockspring push

######OPEN

We can ```OPEN``` our block's homepage on Blockspring. ```OPEN``` is used from our block's working directory.

    $ blockspring open

####Executing Blocks from the Command Line
######RUN
We can execute our blocks directly from the command line with the ```RUN``` command. ```RUN``` can be used to execute blocks remotely, or to execute blocks locally on your machine. Blocks, whether they're executed in the cloud or locally, can easily pipe together with other command-line tools.

Let's execute a block remotely by passing parameters into stdin or via command-line arguments.

    // execute with stdin (recommended).
    $ echo '{"num1": 30, "num2": 50}' | blockspring run <block id>
    
    // execute with args.
    $ blockspring run <block id> --num1=30 --num2=50

Remember, a block id can be found directly in a block's URL. The block id for https://api.blockspring.com/pkpp1233/ce6c7c230d8a4ff4d22ae96654ca4bd2 is pkpp1233/ce6c7c230d8a4ff4d22ae96654ca4bd2. Try running the sum with this block id.

    $ echo '{"num1": 30, "num2": 50}' | blockspring run pkpp1233/ce6c7c230d8a4ff4d22ae96654ca4bd2
    
######RUN:LOCAL

We can also run blocks locally on our computer. Let's do a ```GET``` request to a local directory and then use ```RUN:LOCAL``` to execute that block locally without sending any data to Blockspring.

    $ blockspring get pkpp1233/ce6c7c230d8a4ff4d22ae96654ca4bd2
    $ cd summer-ce6c7c23
    $ echo '{"num1": 30, "num2": 50}' | blockspring run:local python block.py
    
Note: To```RUN``` blocks locally, we need to have the proper runtimes and dependencies installed. This is a Blockspring WIP. To run the above example locally, we need to make sure we have the python runtime and the blockspring python library installed (see [Language-Specific Libraries](#language-specific-libraries)).

####Help

    $ blockspring help

If ```HELP``` isn't particularly helpful for your problem, just email us: <a href="mailto:founders@blockspring.com">founders@blockspring.com</a>

<br/>
## License

MIT - see the license file.

Commit message:

note non-guarantee of consistency with git

README.md, after:

`------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------`
`------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------`
# Gitspring

The gitspring extension keeps blocks in sync with git from the blockspring cli.

## Installing 

To install the gitspring extension, build and install the ruby gem.

```
$ gem build blockspring-cli.gemspec
$ gem install blockspring-cli-0.0.999.gem
```

##Usage:

Gitspring is used from within a repo, inside a block's top level directory. One or more blocks can reside inside a single git repo. 

An example repo directory looks like:
```
- blocks //git repo
    - block-1 
        - block.py
        - blockspring.json
        - git_config.json
    - block-2 
        - block.rb
        - blockspring.json
        - git_config.json
    - ...
```
Once a git repo has been initialized, the git_config.json file should be added to each block's directory to start using gitspring. 

A sample git_config.json file could look like: 

```
{
  "git_url": "git@github.com:GITHUB_ACCOUNT/REPO_NAME.git"
}

```

to keep track of the parent repo, but there are no requirements beyond the file existing.

#### Publishing changes to a block

Submitting changes to Blockspring is accomplished from within a block's directory:
```
# changes to block.py file in block-1 directory 
$ git add block.py
$ git commit -m "change to function" 
$ blockspring push 
```
the last command will:
- Check if the repo has changed since the last git commit:
    - If the repo has changed, the user is prompted to confirm desired action:
        - 1. Abort the push and stop executing prior to last 3 steps below
        - 2. Reset directory to the state of the last commit by discarding all changes in the repo and continue below
- Push code from the last git commit to Blockspring
- Add the latest timestamp from the blockspring.json file to a new git commit
- Push the latest commits to git

### Get the latest version of a block

Requesting the latest version of a block published to Blockspring: 
```
# from block-1 directory 
$ blockspring pull
```

- Stash any changes since the last commit
- Pull the latest block from Blockspring
- Un-stash changes

This should only be used to explicitly work off latest version in Blockspring because git commits may have happened since the last push to Blockspring, 

To get the latest version of the block from git, `git pull` should still be used and is likely safer to work off of.  

## Implementation and discussion

The goal of the gitspring extension is to keep track of revisions to blocks.

The implementation checks to see if a git_config file has been created in a block's directory. If present, git will be used as the system of record for `blockspring push` calls.

Changes made through the Blockspring UI to function code or config can get out of state with the git repo. The implementation assumes changes not commited to git should be ignored. This could be approached more conservatively. 

There might be better ways of handling versioning, and rolling back to previous versions. Blockspring functions are not versioned. Changing function arguments/return values could break users' spreadsheets and should be done carefully!

Merging might also be unnecessarily complicated, where changes within one block inside the repo might prevent another block from pushing. Not sure if there is a way around this when multiple blocks are in one repo. 

The current implementation does not have a guarantee of consistensy with git. With `git_config.json` as a seperate file, anyone not using gitspring and running `blockspring pull` can make subsequentlt untracked changes to the block. Consistency could be enforced by adding a property to the `blockspring.json` to respect git state on the client, assuming the user had the git cli installed. This is currently not possible because fields added to `blockspring.json` are deleted by the server during the `blockspring push` handling. 

`------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------`
`------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------` 

`Non-gitspring documentation begins here:`

# Blockspring CLI.

The Blockspring CLI is used to manage, run, and deploy cloud functions (we call them "blocks") from the command line.

Once deployed, you can use your blocks from just about anywhere. For more info, check out: https://www.blockspring.com.

## Getting Started

Let's deploy our first block in less than 60 seconds.

To get started, we'll need ruby. If you don't have ruby on your machine, first visit https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/installation/ to install it.

#### Step 1: Install the Blockspring-CLI tool

    $ gem install blockspring-cli

#### Step 2: Login to Blockspring   
We'll need to login with our Blockspring account. No Blockspring account yet? Sign up here first: https://api.blockspring.com/users/sign_up.

    $ blockspring login
    Enter your Blockspring credentials.
    Username or email: jason@example.com
    Password (typing will be hidden):
    You are logged in as jason.

#### Step 3: Create a new block
We can create blocks in ruby, python, javascript, php, or R (and more languages are coming soon). Let's create a ruby block since ruby is already installed on our machine.

    $ blockspring new rb "My new Ruby block"
    Creating directory my-new-ruby-block
    Creating script file my-new-ruby-block/block.rb
    Creating config file my-new-ruby-block/blockspring.json

#### Step 4: Deploy your block
Let's enter our new block's directory and deploy.

    $ cd my-new-ruby-block
    $ blockspring push
    Syncronizing script file ./block.rb
    Syncronizing config file ./blockspring.json

#### Step 5: Visit your block's homepage
Now that our block is now deployed we can visit its homepage to see it in action.

    $ blockspring open
    
That's it! We've deployed our first block. To learn more about the Blockspring-CLI, check out the [API in Detail](#api-in-detail) section below. Otherwise, let's pick out our favorite language and start writing our own blocks.

######Language-Specific Libraries
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>If you prefer this language...</th>
    <th>Use this library...</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Ruby</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.rb">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.rb</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Python</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.py">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.py</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Javascript</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.js">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.js</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>PHP</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.php">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.php</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>R</td>
    <td style="text-align: left"><a href="https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.R">https://github.com/blockspring/blockspring.R</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

<br/>
## API in Detail
Let's explore the Blockspring-CLI tool API in detail.

####Authentication
######LOGIN
You must be logged in to run Blockspring-CLI tool commands.

    $ blockspring login
    
######LOGOUT

    $ blockspring logout

####Block Management
######GET
We can ```GET``` a block down to our local machine. The block will be saved in a new directory and can be edited or even executed locally.

    $ blockspring get <block id>

Below is an example ```GET``` request for the following block: https://api.blockspring.com/pkpp1233/6dd22564137f10b8108ec6c8f354f031. The block id can be found directly in the URL.

    $ blockspring get pkpp1233/6dd22564137f10b8108ec6c8f354f031

######NEW
To create a ```NEW``` block:

    $ blockspring new <language> <block name>
    
Here are explicit commands to create a new block in each supported language:
    
    // Ruby: creates dir w/ block.rb & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new rb "fun ruby block"
    
    // Python: creates dir w/ block.py & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new py "fun python block"
    
    // Javascript: creates dir w/ block.js & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new js "fun javascript block"
    
    // PHP: creates dir w/ block.php & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new php "fun php block"
    
    // R: creates dir w/ block.R & blockspring.json
    $ blockspring new R "fun R block"
    
The ```NEW``` command creates a working directory for your block and populates that directory with two files: a ```block.*``` (asterisk is for your language of choice - file holds your function) and a ```blockspring.json``` (this file holds the block's configs and additional data).

######PULL
We can ```PULL``` a block's recent changes down to our machine. ```PULL``` is used from our block's working directory.

    $ blockspring pull
    
Note: If the block isn't in a directory on our machine yet, we either need to use ```GET``` to retrieve it or ```NEW``` to create it.
    
######PUSH
We can ```PUSH``` a block's recent changes up to Blockspring. ```PUSH``` is used from our block's working directory.

    $ blockspring push

######OPEN

We can ```OPEN``` our block's homepage on Blockspring. ```OPEN``` is used from our block's working directory.

    $ blockspring open

####Executing Blocks from the Command Line
######RUN
We can execute our blocks directly from the command line with the ```RUN``` command. ```RUN``` can be used to execute blocks remotely, or to execute blocks locally on your machine. Blocks, whether they're executed in the cloud or locally, can easily pipe together with other command-line tools.

Let's execute a block remotely by passing parameters into stdin or via command-line arguments.

    // execute with stdin (recommended).
    $ echo '{"num1": 30, "num2": 50}' | blockspring run <block id>
    
    // execute with args.
    $ blockspring run <block id> --num1=30 --num2=50

Remember, a block id can be found directly in a block's URL. The block id for https://api.blockspring.com/pkpp1233/ce6c7c230d8a4ff4d22ae96654ca4bd2 is pkpp1233/ce6c7c230d8a4ff4d22ae96654ca4bd2. Try running the sum with this block id.

    $ echo '{"num1": 30, "num2": 50}' | blockspring run pkpp1233/ce6c7c230d8a4ff4d22ae96654ca4bd2
    
######RUN:LOCAL

We can also run blocks locally on our computer. Let's do a ```GET``` request to a local directory and then use ```RUN:LOCAL``` to execute that block locally without sending any data to Blockspring.

    $ blockspring get pkpp1233/ce6c7c230d8a4ff4d22ae96654ca4bd2
    $ cd summer-ce6c7c23
    $ echo '{"num1": 30, "num2": 50}' | blockspring run:local python block.py
    
Note: To```RUN``` blocks locally, we need to have the proper runtimes and dependencies installed. This is a Blockspring WIP. To run the above example locally, we need to make sure we have the python runtime and the blockspring python library installed (see [Language-Specific Libraries](#language-specific-libraries)).

####Help

    $ blockspring help

If ```HELP``` isn't particularly helpful for your problem, just email us: <a href="mailto:founders@blockspring.com">founders@blockspring.com</a>

<br/>
## License

MIT - see the license file.
